just chit-chatting with some people and
ask yourselves discord live and the
question was asked you basically asked
well what do you mean when you say
you've lost
he asked first what do you mean when you
say you've lost faith in veganism as a
movement what's going on and I he went
on to ask well positively what is it you
would expect vegans to be doing more of
I'm gonna give you an example back in
the day when I first started talking to
tofu goddess another being youtuber
she's Canadian citizen I'm a Canadian
citizen so I said look let's get
organized and let's lobby the school
boards in Canada let's get organized she
was getting a degree in education so I
forget masters in education she was
gonna become a schoolteacher say okay
let's go around and challenge the fact
that in the classroom students are
taught that cow milk is part of a
healthy diet this kind of thing let's
actually get out there and say no as a
matter of scientific fact eggs are not
healthy
cow milk is not healthy and it's it's
immoral for students it's other stuff
and there's also a question about meat
and dairy companies paying money so that
they can advertise to students in the
classroom that's a form of activism
really getting awareness there was
another vegan youtuber called them
Maude vegan and I talked to her about
getting organized to actually do public
outreach and education and then also
ultimately some kind of legal challenges
about leather so leather doesn't just
pollute the rivers
it also pollutes your home there are
toxic byproducts that the leather
actually sheds it's remarkably toxic as
an actual southern so it's actually a
minor threat to your health as someone
if you are someone who owns leather and
wears leather it damages your health but
of course it also damages the health of
a lot of the workers the employees who
make the leather and there are other
stages of production where there are
questions of contamination pollution so
to do public outreach and education and
to start lobbying on that start
pressuring for political and social
change and it never happened now those
are not the two worst examples
those are two of the most positive
examples those are two of the only
[ __ ] people who ever even discussed
with me the possibility of doing
something in real life to make a
difference and sure it's it's with
regret that I've got to look back at the
last five years and say nothing ever
happened
those people talked to me for a short
time and they pursued a certain level of
fame or notoriety here on YouTube and
you know then just petered out it
basically it was at the time when I was
coming back to Canada I was like okay
great I'm finally coming back to Canada
from China which is a big sacrifice you
know I was trying to get my own projects
going in terms of vegan activism and the
very few people who would ever talk to
me about through his thing in real life
or even meeting with me in real life
every single one of them think doubt and
sure that included vegan gains that
included Richard you know so you were
asking he was asking him a minute ago
what what happened to me was Joseph well
in some ways nothing happened that I
never slept with Richard's girlfriend or
something like we didn't have a conflict
of that kind but you know right so I was
in China packing up to move back to
Canada and I act she had a list of
people to buy gifts for like a gift so
when he come back so hey I bought you
this when I was living in China Richard
was on the list
and one day he just freaked out and said
sent me a message saying you know aisel
your videos about racism
you're like qat racist you're basically
always saying that other people are
racist and it keeps people racism and
just I don't want to talk to you like
[ __ ] you and he blocked me that was the
end of covers mic drop and he blocked me
on Facebook and never spoke to me again
another thing yes yes said a few things
to me since then since then he
threatened to sue me for example he
threatened to sue me and get my videos
deleting him my channel TV now and so
he's been even more hostile censor um
but yeah long story short so if you ask
why am i disappointed with veganism as a
movement and those aren't the most
negative those levels positive examples
because at least there was a one time
there was the potential there at one
time there was a potential for something
positive it happened through
collaboration with Richard vegan gains
through collaboration with Marvin
in through collaboration with tofu
goddess with a lot of other people that
was never even a chance
no of never matter of never manifest
this yeah no a lot there were a lot of
people we did some videos where people
picked up on like they thought there was
a flirtatious vibe between us so a lot
of people think she and I weren't really
she was not but no and I'm by the way I
don't even think she ever liked me or
anything I don't think that was a real
component just not doing so like what
you're talking about is like doing like
some really good things in the wall and
getting veganism trying trying to do
something right yeah yeah yeah but like
what do you think about the idea like
sure that's cool you know it's like it's
like it I thought I was like raping me
five times a week and then I and then I
stopped doing that great I mean I
completely don't you me I completely
know what you mean the thing is it's not
just that I want to put out the fire if
my own house is on fire
if someone else's house is on fire and
it's burning down I also want to help I
want to take responsibility for that I
want to make the world a better place so
you know I love in religions like
Buddhism and Hinduism historically
vegetarianism just became centered on
one's own personal moral purity on one's
own karma which is like saying oh I only
care if my own house is on fire right
and that's not my perspective my
perspective is hey I care about all of
our homes I care about the whole city
it'll kind of you want to look at it
ultimately the whole world right so like
yeah if I personally I'm not killing any
cows just to simplify of it yeah okay
that's nice but if my next-door neighbor
is killing cows if every day I go to
work
and all of my co-workers are killing it
easy obviously it's merely of kind of a
tokenistic or symbolic thing that I may
be resolved you know to never to never
do that kind of harm myself so the next
step would
inevitable is that you reach out to
other people and say look I'm vegan
won't you be vegan too I feel this isn't
just a moral obligation for me I think
it's a moral obligation for everybody so
that's one that's the the kind of human
to human face to face
you know element of it but then of
course you scale it up I mean just just
as amusing example the fire because the
fire is impersonal it's just a force of
nature what everyone that's a chemical
reaction or anyone say it's a it's a
hazard but you know there's there's a
when you scale it up talking about the
mass you know social economic cultural
phenomenon which is in some ways just
raging like a fire unchecked you have to
say well there are all these other
things we have to do to stand up and
challenge this fire most people don't
even think leather is an ethical issue
they tend to think fur is which is kind
of interesting but it's name is a hey
wait you know what
leather is an ethical problem it's an
ecological problem it's even a health
problem for you I want you to know and
then I want legislation even if just
taxes imagine if we could just get a 10%
tax on leather and people really saying
look leather has to be phased out it has
to become a thing of the past so it's a
big cultural and economic turning point
so I'm never gonna make that happen by
just being focused on my own personal
purity you know my own home or something
I've got to do it by reaching out to
others yeah so III just say that's
inevitable but of course on a kind of
strictly logical level of course you're
correct veganism only requires that you
personally desist from this this immoral
act sure that's true yeah I would never
say that someone is not vegan because
they're not making the further effort to
help other people or to help animals to
health plant that's this is true but as
you know cocaine is vegan you can be
vegan to be a cocaine addict doesn't
mean it's good yeah depressing
you got another movement I could join
instead you got a better suggestion
really awful right at last couple last
couple days talking to a lot of
Communists end of the talk II do I
talked to one conservative and several
right before it where I wouldn't go talk
to one person who was really extreme
right when I've talked to people from
different movements and I think a lot of
those people are desperate to cling to
something that makes them feel like
they're making the world a better place
and they're not what they're clinging to
is is [ __ ] horrible
you know it's like if you think about
the ocean and you have drowning men
clinging to driftwood you know but some
of them are deluded and think that this
driftwood is a god like the Communists
and the fascists they believe in this
[ __ ] piece of driftwood and you know
right yeah yeah yeah and I'm just not
deluded enough to look at these look at
these ideologies and see it that you're
trying to make a difference to change
things veganism do you think you're
doing a little bit of a pot I mean other
beings are doing through there's a great
way to reach other people
Yeah right what we'll look the Internet
does harm also writes the Internet is
really damaged my life okay good great
great point great point but uh so
already this human scale you want
individual human scale there's the mass
social scale to that that's a good
example in a mat I think another exam
acts hysteria things like that can
spread to do that's that's in the mescal
but on the human one-to-one scale you
know I've been applying for jobs when my
employers Google my name one of the top
results is nor vegans channel nor vegan
saying
aisel Mazar makes excuses to support a
rapist it's something like that it's
like you know it and now of course that
that already looks bad if English is
your first language
what if Chinese is your first language
so I've had that kind of defamation and
denunciation of me on the internet from
other vegans it's never been meat eaters
I've never been facing that Casta it's
fun with including vegan games no
remember vegan gains threatened to sue
me I've never had a meat eater
threatened assume have never had a meat
eater threatened to shut down my channel
it's other vegan stream of [ __ ]
but look on a human level you know yes I
was one of the people talking about it
honestly look vegans come with the
internet to get laid they come on the
internet for sex money fame so they
don't have to feel so alone you know I
feel isolated you feel powerless you
want to have friends you want to fall in
love you know I don't I don't think
that's evil at all I think that's it
that's a totally legitimate part of it
and that that's that's hypothetically
the most pause bar today so after five
years it's been more than five years
have been on youtube I would say I have
one friend one real-life friend as a
result of this YouTube channel one in
the whole world
he's a period of the channel is for his
first name is Muhammad so he's actually
appeared in the chaplain we've met in
real life and work we're friends there
were maybe two people who I'd consider
close friends by facebook on length like
just like we've never met but we do have
we do have messages back and forth and
you saw it was so sorry I mean this just
gives you
idea and then I've already sent you in
terms of other activists or
organizations it's it's like it's zero
now in the past so just one or two
people where there was some hope of
collaboration working together but it's
it's really that bad so look that's not
zero outcome you could say well gee if
what if during these five years I hadn't
been on the Internet at all then I
wouldn't even have those few friends
right and I've gotten laid through
YouTube it's certainly improved my well
okay no okay wait let's even wait let's
even let's even challenge that let's
even [ __ ] challenge that maybe okay I
I I've gotten late because of this
youtube channel but if I didn't have
this YouTube channel then I would have
been making more of an effort to connect
to people face to face not meeting women
you know through the internet not
meeting women through veganism I would
have met different women and it would
have forced me to compromise and work
with you know I was at University of
Victoria it would have forced me to
socialize with and make connections with
people who happen to go to my University
or happen to be in my gym of course 98%
of them or 99% are not vegan it'd be
something else you have in common that
you were stood out so I don't even know
that it really is possible I would have
been better off not you know not having
my set my sex life of my social life
being dominated by this [ __ ] failure
of a movement this way it's failed so
far doesn't mean it's always gonna fail
but so far last five years I see a lot
of failure sure oh yeah yeah one of the
most exciting things is that is that a
political movement you look I live in
Taiwan right so in in Taiwan veganism as
a diet is way more successful than in
America or anywhere in Europe we were
either number one or number two in the
world for veganism the highest rates of
veganism in the world are basically
Taiwan there are a couple of specific
towns within India not India as a whole
where it's a
linked to religion and then basically
the city of Tel Aviv in Israel those are
the big success stories for veganism so
this is absolutely one of the most but
guess what as a movement in terms of
ecology ethics and politics it's dead
but I believe I live in a small town
with more than 30 vegan restaurants
there could be 50 vegan restaurants here
I'd like I don't think anyone's counted
them all they're more than 30 vegan
restaurants here veganism as a diet is
huge vegan activism zero and what was
that used to be in a big city still in
Taiwan Gaussian just down the road zero
and I was really going and asking I was
really trying to meet vegan activist and
find out what was going the movement
absolutely zero so this is just my
warning you yeah there can be products
there can be economic activity but it's
important to remember that this is a
very different question from the
progress of the movement